doc/source/development/code_style.rst, before:

.. _code_style:

{{ header }}

=======================
pandas code style guide
=======================

.. contents:: Table of contents:
   :local:

Patterns
========

foo.__class__
-------------

*pandas* uses 'type(foo)' instead 'foo.__class__' as it is making the code more
readable.

For example:

**Good:**

.. code-block:: python

    foo = "bar"
    type(foo)

**Bad:**

.. code-block:: python

    foo = "bar"
    foo.__class__


String formatting
=================

Concatenated strings
--------------------

f-strings
~~~~~~~~~

*pandas* uses f-strings formatting instead of '%' and '.format()' string formatters.

The convention of using f-strings on a string that is concatenated over serveral lines,
is to prefix only the lines containing the value needs to be interpeted.

For example:

**Good:**

.. code-block:: python

    foo = "old_function"
    bar = "new_function"

    my_warning_message = (
        f"Warning, {foo} is deprecated, "
        "please use the new and way better "
        f"{bar}"
    )

**Bad:**

.. code-block:: python

    foo = "old_function"
    bar = "new_function"

    my_warning_message = (
        f"Warning, {foo} is deprecated, "
        f"please use the new and way better "
        f"{bar}"
    )

White spaces
~~~~~~~~~~~~

Putting the white space only at the end of the previous line, so
there is no whitespace at the beggining of the concatenated string.

For example:

**Good:**

.. code-block:: python

    example_string = (
        "Some long concatenated string, "
        "with good placement of the "
        "whitespaces"
    )

**Bad:**

.. code-block:: python

    example_string = (
        "Some long concatenated string,"
        " with bad placement of the"
        " whitespaces"
    )

Representation function (aka 'repr()')
--------------------------------------

*pandas* uses 'repr()' instead of '%r' and '!r'.

The use of 'repr()' will only happend when the value is not an obvious string.

For example:

**Good:**

.. code-block:: python

    value = str
    f"Unknown received value, got: {repr(value)}"

**Good:**

.. code-block:: python

    value = str
    f"Unknown received type, got: '{type(value).__name__}'"


Imports (aim for absolute)
==========================

In Python 3, absolute imports are recommended. In absolute import doing something
like ``import string`` will import the string module rather than ``string.py``
in the same directory. As much as possible, you should try to write out
absolute imports that show the whole import chain from top-level pandas.

Explicit relative imports are also supported in Python 3 but it is not
recommended to use them. Implicit relative imports should never be used
and are removed in Python 3.

For example:

::

    # preferred
    import pandas.core.common as com

    # not preferred
    from .common import test_base

    # wrong
    from common import test_base

Commit message:

DOC: Mention black and PEP8 in pandas style guide (#32043)

doc/source/development/code_style.rst, after:

.. _code_style:

{{ header }}

=======================
pandas code style guide
=======================

.. contents:: Table of contents:
   :local:

*pandas* follows the `PEP8 <https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0008/>`_
standard and uses `Black <https://black.readthedocs.io/en/stable/>`_
and `Flake8 <https://flake8.pycqa.org/en/latest/>`_ to ensure a
consistent code format throughout the project. For details see the
:ref:`contributing guide to pandas<contributing.code-formatting>`.

Patterns
========

foo.__class__
-------------

*pandas* uses 'type(foo)' instead 'foo.__class__' as it is making the code more
readable.

For example:

**Good:**

.. code-block:: python

    foo = "bar"
    type(foo)

**Bad:**

.. code-block:: python

    foo = "bar"
    foo.__class__


String formatting
=================

Concatenated strings
--------------------

f-strings
~~~~~~~~~

*pandas* uses f-strings formatting instead of '%' and '.format()' string formatters.

The convention of using f-strings on a string that is concatenated over serveral lines,
is to prefix only the lines containing the value needs to be interpeted.

For example:

**Good:**

.. code-block:: python

    foo = "old_function"
    bar = "new_function"

    my_warning_message = (
        f"Warning, {foo} is deprecated, "
        "please use the new and way better "
        f"{bar}"
    )

**Bad:**

.. code-block:: python

    foo = "old_function"
    bar = "new_function"

    my_warning_message = (
        f"Warning, {foo} is deprecated, "
        f"please use the new and way better "
        f"{bar}"
    )

White spaces
~~~~~~~~~~~~

Putting the white space only at the end of the previous line, so
there is no whitespace at the beggining of the concatenated string.

For example:

**Good:**

.. code-block:: python

    example_string = (
        "Some long concatenated string, "
        "with good placement of the "
        "whitespaces"
    )

**Bad:**

.. code-block:: python

    example_string = (
        "Some long concatenated string,"
        " with bad placement of the"
        " whitespaces"
    )

Representation function (aka 'repr()')
--------------------------------------

*pandas* uses 'repr()' instead of '%r' and '!r'.

The use of 'repr()' will only happend when the value is not an obvious string.

For example:

**Good:**

.. code-block:: python

    value = str
    f"Unknown received value, got: {repr(value)}"

**Good:**

.. code-block:: python

    value = str
    f"Unknown received type, got: '{type(value).__name__}'"


Imports (aim for absolute)
==========================

In Python 3, absolute imports are recommended. In absolute import doing something
like ``import string`` will import the string module rather than ``string.py``
in the same directory. As much as possible, you should try to write out
absolute imports that show the whole import chain from top-level pandas.

Explicit relative imports are also supported in Python 3 but it is not
recommended to use them. Implicit relative imports should never be used
and are removed in Python 3.

For example:

::

    # preferred
    import pandas.core.common as com

    # not preferred
    from .common import test_base

    # wrong
    from common import test_base
