doc/source/whatsnew/v1.0.2.rst, before:

.. _whatsnew_102:

What's new in 1.0.2 (March 11, 2020)
------------------------------------

These are the changes in pandas 1.0.2. See :ref:`release` for a full changelog
including other versions of pandas.

{{ header }}

.. ---------------------------------------------------------------------------

.. _whatsnew_102.regressions:

Fixed regressions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Fixed regression in :meth:`DataFrame.to_excel` when ``columns`` kwarg is passed (:issue:`31677`)
- Fixed regression in :meth:`Series.align` when ``other`` is a DataFrame and ``method`` is not None (:issue:`31785`)
- Fixed regression in :meth:`pandas.core.groupby.RollingGroupby.apply` where the ``raw`` parameter was ignored (:issue:`31754`)
- Fixed regression in :meth:`pandas.core.window.Rolling.corr` when using a time offset (:issue:`31789`)
- Fixed regression in :meth:`pandas.core.groupby.DataFrameGroupBy.nunique` which was modifying the original values if ``NaN`` values were present (:issue:`31950`)
- Fixed regression where :func:`read_pickle` raised a ``UnicodeDecodeError`` when reading a py27 pickle with :class:`MultiIndex` column (:issue:`31988`).
- Fixed regression in :class:`DataFrame` arithmetic operations with mis-matched columns (:issue:`31623`)
- Fixed regression in :meth:`pandas.core.groupby.GroupBy.agg` calling a user-provided function an extra time on an empty input (:issue:`31760`)
- Joining on :class:`DatetimeIndex` or :class:`TimedeltaIndex` will preserve ``freq`` in simple cases (:issue:`32166`)
- Fixed bug in the repr of an object-dtype :class:`Index` with bools and missing values (:issue:`32146`)
-

.. ---------------------------------------------------------------------------

Indexing with Nullable Boolean Arrays
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Previously indexing with a nullable Boolean array containing ``NA`` would raise a ``ValueError``, however this is now permitted with ``NA`` being treated as ``False``. (:issue:`31503`)

.. ipython:: python

    s = pd.Series([1, 2, 3, 4])
    mask = pd.array([True, True, False, None], dtype="boolean")
    s
    mask

*pandas 1.0.0-1.0.1*

.. code-block:: python

    >>> s[mask]
    Traceback (most recent call last):
    ...
    ValueError: cannot mask with array containing NA / NaN values

*pandas 1.0.2*

.. ipython:: python

    s[mask]

.. _whatsnew_102.bug_fixes:

Bug fixes
~~~~~~~~~

**Datetimelike**

- Bug in :meth:`DataFrame.reindex` and :meth:`Series.reindex` when reindexing with a tz-aware index (:issue:`26683`)
- Bug in :meth:`Series.astype` not copying for tz-naive and tz-aware datetime64 dtype (:issue:`32490`)
- Bug where :func:`to_datetime` would raise when passed ``pd.NA`` (:issue:`32213`)
- Improved error message when subtracting two :class:`Timestamp` that result in an out-of-bounds :class:`Timedelta` (:issue:`31774`)

**Categorical**

- Fixed bug where :meth:`Categorical.from_codes` improperly raised a ``ValueError`` when passed nullable integer codes. (:issue:`31779`)
- Fixed bug where :meth:`Categorical` constructor would raise a ``TypeError`` when given a numpy array containing ``pd.NA``. (:issue:`31927`)
- Bug in :class:`Categorical` that would ignore or crash when calling :meth:`Series.replace` with a list-like ``to_replace`` (:issue:`31720`)

**I/O**

- Using ``pd.NA`` with :meth:`DataFrame.to_json` now correctly outputs a null value instead of an empty object (:issue:`31615`)
- Fixed pickling of ``pandas.NA``. Previously a new object was returned, which broke computations relying on ``NA`` being a singleton (:issue:`31847`)
- Fixed bug in parquet roundtrip with nullable unsigned integer dtypes (:issue:`31896`).

**Experimental dtypes**

- Fix bug in :meth:`DataFrame.convert_dtypes` for columns that were already using the ``"string"`` dtype (:issue:`31731`).
- Fixed bug in setting values using a slice indexer with string dtype (:issue:`31772`)
- Fixed bug where :meth:`pandas.core.groupby.GroupBy.first` and :meth:`pandas.core.groupby.GroupBy.last` would raise a ``TypeError`` when groups contained ``pd.NA`` in a column of object dtype (:issue:`32123`)
- Fix bug in :meth:`Series.convert_dtypes` for series with mix of integers and strings (:issue:`32117`)
- Fixed bug in :meth:`DataFrame.convert_dtypes`, where ``BooleanDtype`` columns were converted to ``Int64`` (:issue:`32287`)

**Strings**

- Using ``pd.NA`` with :meth:`Series.str.repeat` now correctly outputs a null value instead of raising error for vector inputs (:issue:`31632`)

**Rolling**

- Fixed rolling operations with variable window (defined by time duration) on decreasing time index (:issue:`32385`).

.. ---------------------------------------------------------------------------

.. _whatsnew_102.contributors:

Contributors
~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. contributors:: v1.0.1..v1.0.2|HEAD

Commit message:

REG: Restore read_csv function for some file-likes (#32577)
Restores behavior down to the fact that the
Python engine cannot handle NamedTemporaryFile.

Closes https://github.com/pandas-dev/pandas/issues/31819

Credit to @sasanquaneuf for originating idea.

doc/source/whatsnew/v1.0.2.rst, after:

.. _whatsnew_102:

What's new in 1.0.2 (March 11, 2020)
------------------------------------

These are the changes in pandas 1.0.2. See :ref:`release` for a full changelog
including other versions of pandas.

{{ header }}

.. ---------------------------------------------------------------------------

.. _whatsnew_102.regressions:

Fixed regressions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Fixed regression in :meth:`DataFrame.to_excel` when ``columns`` kwarg is passed (:issue:`31677`)
- Fixed regression in :meth:`Series.align` when ``other`` is a DataFrame and ``method`` is not None (:issue:`31785`)
- Fixed regression in :meth:`pandas.core.groupby.RollingGroupby.apply` where the ``raw`` parameter was ignored (:issue:`31754`)
- Fixed regression in :meth:`pandas.core.window.Rolling.corr` when using a time offset (:issue:`31789`)
- Fixed regression in :meth:`pandas.core.groupby.DataFrameGroupBy.nunique` which was modifying the original values if ``NaN`` values were present (:issue:`31950`)
- Fixed regression where :func:`read_pickle` raised a ``UnicodeDecodeError`` when reading a py27 pickle with :class:`MultiIndex` column (:issue:`31988`).
- Fixed regression in :class:`DataFrame` arithmetic operations with mis-matched columns (:issue:`31623`)
- Fixed regression in :meth:`pandas.core.groupby.GroupBy.agg` calling a user-provided function an extra time on an empty input (:issue:`31760`)
- Joining on :class:`DatetimeIndex` or :class:`TimedeltaIndex` will preserve ``freq`` in simple cases (:issue:`32166`)
- Fixed bug in the repr of an object-dtype :class:`Index` with bools and missing values (:issue:`32146`)
- Fixed regression in :meth:`read_csv` in which the ``encoding`` option was not recognized with certain file-like objects (:issue:`31819`)
-

.. ---------------------------------------------------------------------------

Indexing with Nullable Boolean Arrays
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Previously indexing with a nullable Boolean array containing ``NA`` would raise a ``ValueError``, however this is now permitted with ``NA`` being treated as ``False``. (:issue:`31503`)

.. ipython:: python

    s = pd.Series([1, 2, 3, 4])
    mask = pd.array([True, True, False, None], dtype="boolean")
    s
    mask

*pandas 1.0.0-1.0.1*

.. code-block:: python

    >>> s[mask]
    Traceback (most recent call last):
    ...
    ValueError: cannot mask with array containing NA / NaN values

*pandas 1.0.2*

.. ipython:: python

    s[mask]

.. _whatsnew_102.bug_fixes:

Bug fixes
~~~~~~~~~

**Datetimelike**

- Bug in :meth:`DataFrame.reindex` and :meth:`Series.reindex` when reindexing with a tz-aware index (:issue:`26683`)
- Bug in :meth:`Series.astype` not copying for tz-naive and tz-aware datetime64 dtype (:issue:`32490`)
- Bug where :func:`to_datetime` would raise when passed ``pd.NA`` (:issue:`32213`)
- Improved error message when subtracting two :class:`Timestamp` that result in an out-of-bounds :class:`Timedelta` (:issue:`31774`)

**Categorical**

- Fixed bug where :meth:`Categorical.from_codes` improperly raised a ``ValueError`` when passed nullable integer codes. (:issue:`31779`)
- Fixed bug where :meth:`Categorical` constructor would raise a ``TypeError`` when given a numpy array containing ``pd.NA``. (:issue:`31927`)
- Bug in :class:`Categorical` that would ignore or crash when calling :meth:`Series.replace` with a list-like ``to_replace`` (:issue:`31720`)

**I/O**

- Using ``pd.NA`` with :meth:`DataFrame.to_json` now correctly outputs a null value instead of an empty object (:issue:`31615`)
- Fixed pickling of ``pandas.NA``. Previously a new object was returned, which broke computations relying on ``NA`` being a singleton (:issue:`31847`)
- Fixed bug in parquet roundtrip with nullable unsigned integer dtypes (:issue:`31896`).

**Experimental dtypes**

- Fix bug in :meth:`DataFrame.convert_dtypes` for columns that were already using the ``"string"`` dtype (:issue:`31731`).
- Fixed bug in setting values using a slice indexer with string dtype (:issue:`31772`)
- Fixed bug where :meth:`pandas.core.groupby.GroupBy.first` and :meth:`pandas.core.groupby.GroupBy.last` would raise a ``TypeError`` when groups contained ``pd.NA`` in a column of object dtype (:issue:`32123`)
- Fix bug in :meth:`Series.convert_dtypes` for series with mix of integers and strings (:issue:`32117`)
- Fixed bug in :meth:`DataFrame.convert_dtypes`, where ``BooleanDtype`` columns were converted to ``Int64`` (:issue:`32287`)

**Strings**

- Using ``pd.NA`` with :meth:`Series.str.repeat` now correctly outputs a null value instead of raising error for vector inputs (:issue:`31632`)

**Rolling**

- Fixed rolling operations with variable window (defined by time duration) on decreasing time index (:issue:`32385`).

.. ---------------------------------------------------------------------------

.. _whatsnew_102.contributors:

Contributors
~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. contributors:: v1.0.1..v1.0.2|HEAD
