doc/source/whatsnew/v1.0.1.rst, before:

.. _whatsnew_101:

What's new in 1.0.1 (??)
------------------------

These are the changes in pandas 1.0.1. See :ref:`release` for a full changelog
including other versions of pandas.

{{ header }}

.. ---------------------------------------------------------------------------


.. _whatsnew_101.bug_fixes:

Bug fixes
~~~~~~~~~
- Bug in :meth:`GroupBy.apply` was raising ``TypeError`` if called with function which returned a non-pandas non-scalar object (e.g. a list) (:issue:`31441`)

Categorical
^^^^^^^^^^^

-
-

Datetimelike
^^^^^^^^^^^^
- Fixed regression in :meth:`to_datetime` when parsing non-nanosecond resolution datetimes (:issue:`31491`)
- Fixed bug in :meth:`to_datetime` raising when ``cache=True`` and out-of-bound values are present (:issue:`31491`)

Timedelta
^^^^^^^^^

-
-

Timezones
^^^^^^^^^

-
-


Numeric
^^^^^^^
- Bug in dtypes being lost in ``DataFrame.__invert__`` (``~`` operator) with mixed dtypes (:issue:`31183`)
- Bug in :class:`Series` multiplication when multiplying a numeric :class:`Series` with >10000 elements with a timedelta-like scalar (:issue:`31467`)
-

Conversion
^^^^^^^^^^

-
-

Strings
^^^^^^^

-
-


Interval
^^^^^^^^

-
-

Indexing
^^^^^^^^

- Fixed regression when indexing a ``Series`` or ``DataFrame`` indexed by ``DatetimeIndex`` with a slice containg a :class:`datetime.date` (:issue:`31501`)
- Fixed regression in :class:`DataFrame` setting values with a slice (e.g. ``df[-4:] = 1``) indexing by label instead of position (:issue:`31469`)
-
-
- Bug where assigning to a :class:`Series` using a IntegerArray / BooleanArray as a mask would raise ``TypeError`` (:issue:`31446`)

Missing
^^^^^^^

-
-

MultiIndex
^^^^^^^^^^

-
-

I/O
^^^

- Fixed regression in :meth:`~DataFrame.to_csv` where specifying an ``na_rep`` might truncate the values written (:issue:`31447`)
-
-

Plotting
^^^^^^^^

-
-

Groupby/resample/rolling
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

-
-


Reshaping
^^^^^^^^^

-
-

Sparse
^^^^^^

-
-

ExtensionArray
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

- Bug in dtype being lost in ``__invert__``  (``~`` operator) for extension-array backed ``Series`` and ``DataFrame`` (:issue:`23087`)
-


Other
^^^^^
- Regression fixed in objTOJSON.c fix return-type warning (:issue:`31463`)
-

.. ---------------------------------------------------------------------------

.. _whatsnew_101.contributors:

Contributors
~~~~~~~~~~~~

Commit message:

BUG accept and deprecate negative integer for max_colwidth (#31569)

doc/source/whatsnew/v1.0.1.rst, after:

.. _whatsnew_101:

What's new in 1.0.1 (??)
------------------------

These are the changes in pandas 1.0.1. See :ref:`release` for a full changelog
including other versions of pandas.

{{ header }}

.. ---------------------------------------------------------------------------

.. _whatsnew_101.deprecations:

Deprecations
~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Support for negative integer for :attr:`pd.options.display.max_colwidth` is deprecated in favor of using ``None`` (:issue:`31532`)

.. ---------------------------------------------------------------------------

.. _whatsnew_101.bug_fixes:

Bug fixes
~~~~~~~~~
- Bug in :meth:`GroupBy.apply` was raising ``TypeError`` if called with function which returned a non-pandas non-scalar object (e.g. a list) (:issue:`31441`)

Categorical
^^^^^^^^^^^

-
-

Datetimelike
^^^^^^^^^^^^
- Fixed regression in :meth:`to_datetime` when parsing non-nanosecond resolution datetimes (:issue:`31491`)
- Fixed bug in :meth:`to_datetime` raising when ``cache=True`` and out-of-bound values are present (:issue:`31491`)

Timedelta
^^^^^^^^^

-
-

Timezones
^^^^^^^^^

-
-


Numeric
^^^^^^^
- Bug in dtypes being lost in ``DataFrame.__invert__`` (``~`` operator) with mixed dtypes (:issue:`31183`)
- Bug in :class:`Series` multiplication when multiplying a numeric :class:`Series` with >10000 elements with a timedelta-like scalar (:issue:`31467`)
-

Conversion
^^^^^^^^^^

-
-

Strings
^^^^^^^

-
-


Interval
^^^^^^^^

-
-

Indexing
^^^^^^^^

- Fixed regression when indexing a ``Series`` or ``DataFrame`` indexed by ``DatetimeIndex`` with a slice containg a :class:`datetime.date` (:issue:`31501`)
- Fixed regression in :class:`DataFrame` setting values with a slice (e.g. ``df[-4:] = 1``) indexing by label instead of position (:issue:`31469`)
-
-
- Bug where assigning to a :class:`Series` using a IntegerArray / BooleanArray as a mask would raise ``TypeError`` (:issue:`31446`)

Missing
^^^^^^^

-
-

MultiIndex
^^^^^^^^^^

-
-

I/O
^^^

- Fixed regression in :meth:`~DataFrame.to_csv` where specifying an ``na_rep`` might truncate the values written (:issue:`31447`)
-
-

Plotting
^^^^^^^^

-
-

Groupby/resample/rolling
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

-
-


Reshaping
^^^^^^^^^

-
-

Sparse
^^^^^^

-
-

ExtensionArray
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

- Bug in dtype being lost in ``__invert__``  (``~`` operator) for extension-array backed ``Series`` and ``DataFrame`` (:issue:`23087`)
-


Other
^^^^^
- Regression fixed in objTOJSON.c fix return-type warning (:issue:`31463`)
- Fixed a regression where setting :attr:`pd.options.display.max_colwidth` was not accepting negative integer. In addition, this behavior has been deprecated in favor of using ``None`` (:issue:`31532`)
-

.. ---------------------------------------------------------------------------

.. _whatsnew_101.contributors:

Contributors
~~~~~~~~~~~~
