doc/source/whatsnew/v1.1.0.rst, before:

.. _whatsnew_110:

What's new in 1.1.0 (??)
------------------------

These are the changes in pandas 1.1.0. See :ref:`release` for a full changelog
including other versions of pandas.

{{ header }}

.. ---------------------------------------------------------------------------

Enhancements
~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. _whatsnew_110.enhancements.other:

Other enhancements
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

- :class:`Styler` may now render CSS more efficiently where multiple cells have the same styling (:issue:`30876`)
-
-

.. ---------------------------------------------------------------------------

.. _whatsnew_110.api.other:

Other API changes
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

- :meth:`Series.describe` will now show distribution percentiles for ``datetime`` dtypes, statistics ``first`` and ``last``
  will now be ``min`` and ``max`` to match with numeric dtypes in :meth:`DataFrame.describe` (:issue:`30164`)
-
-

.. ---------------------------------------------------------------------------

.. _whatsnew_110.deprecations:

Deprecations
~~~~~~~~~~~~

-
-

.. ---------------------------------------------------------------------------


.. _whatsnew_110.performance:

Performance improvements
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

-
-

.. ---------------------------------------------------------------------------

.. _whatsnew_110.bug_fixes:

Bug fixes
~~~~~~~~~


Categorical
^^^^^^^^^^^

-
-

Datetimelike
^^^^^^^^^^^^
- Bug in :class:`Timestamp` where constructing :class:`Timestamp` from ambiguous epoch time and calling constructor again changed :meth:`Timestamp.value` property (:issue:`24329`)
- :meth:`DatetimeArray.searchsorted`, :meth:`TimedeltaArray.searchsorted`, :meth:`PeriodArray.searchsorted` not recognizing non-pandas scalars and incorrectly raising ``ValueError`` instead of ``TypeError`` (:issue:`30950`)
-

Timedelta
^^^^^^^^^

-
-

Timezones
^^^^^^^^^

-
-


Numeric
^^^^^^^
-
-

Conversion
^^^^^^^^^^
- Bug in :class:`Series` construction from NumPy array with big-endian ``datetime64`` dtype (:issue:`29684`)
-
-

Strings
^^^^^^^

-
-


Interval
^^^^^^^^

-
-

Indexing
^^^^^^^^
- Bug in slicing on a :class:`DatetimeIndex` with a partial-timestamp dropping high-resolution indices near the end of a year, quarter, or month (:issue:`31064`)
-
-

Missing
^^^^^^^

-
-

MultiIndex
^^^^^^^^^^

-
-

I/O
^^^

-
-

Plotting
^^^^^^^^

-
-

Groupby/resample/rolling
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

- Bug in :meth:`GroupBy.apply` raises ``ValueError`` when the ``by`` axis is not sorted and has duplicates and the applied ``func`` does not mutate passed in objects (:issue:`30667`)

Reshaping
^^^^^^^^^

-
- Bug in :meth:`DataFrame.pivot_table` when only MultiIndexed columns is set (:issue:`17038`)
- Bug in :meth:`DataFrame.unstack` and :meth:`Series.unstack` can take tuple names in MultiIndexed data (:issue:`19966`)
- Bug in :meth:`DataFrame.pivot_table` when ``margin`` is ``True`` and only ``column`` is defined (:issue:`31016`)
- Fix incorrect error message in :meth:`DataFrame.pivot` when ``columns`` is set to ``None``. (:issue:`30924`)
- Bug in :func:`crosstab` when inputs are two Series and have tuple names, the output will keep dummy MultiIndex as columns. (:issue:`18321`)


Sparse
^^^^^^

-
-

ExtensionArray
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

-
-


Other
^^^^^
- Appending a dictionary to a :class:`DataFrame` without passing ``ignore_index=True`` will raise ``TypeError: Can only append a dict if ignore_index=True``
  instead of ``TypeError: Can only append a Series if ignore_index=True or if the Series has a name`` (:issue:`30871`)
-

.. ---------------------------------------------------------------------------

.. _whatsnew_110.contributors:

Contributors
~~~~~~~~~~~~

Commit message:

BUG: concat not copying index and columns when copy=True (#31119)

doc/source/whatsnew/v1.1.0.rst, after:

.. _whatsnew_110:

What's new in 1.1.0 (??)
------------------------

These are the changes in pandas 1.1.0. See :ref:`release` for a full changelog
including other versions of pandas.

{{ header }}

.. ---------------------------------------------------------------------------

Enhancements
~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. _whatsnew_110.enhancements.other:

Other enhancements
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

- :class:`Styler` may now render CSS more efficiently where multiple cells have the same styling (:issue:`30876`)
-
-

.. ---------------------------------------------------------------------------

.. _whatsnew_110.api.other:

Other API changes
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

- :meth:`Series.describe` will now show distribution percentiles for ``datetime`` dtypes, statistics ``first`` and ``last``
  will now be ``min`` and ``max`` to match with numeric dtypes in :meth:`DataFrame.describe` (:issue:`30164`)
-
-

.. ---------------------------------------------------------------------------

.. _whatsnew_110.deprecations:

Deprecations
~~~~~~~~~~~~

-
-

.. ---------------------------------------------------------------------------


.. _whatsnew_110.performance:

Performance improvements
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

-
-

.. ---------------------------------------------------------------------------

.. _whatsnew_110.bug_fixes:

Bug fixes
~~~~~~~~~


Categorical
^^^^^^^^^^^

-
-

Datetimelike
^^^^^^^^^^^^
- Bug in :class:`Timestamp` where constructing :class:`Timestamp` from ambiguous epoch time and calling constructor again changed :meth:`Timestamp.value` property (:issue:`24329`)
- :meth:`DatetimeArray.searchsorted`, :meth:`TimedeltaArray.searchsorted`, :meth:`PeriodArray.searchsorted` not recognizing non-pandas scalars and incorrectly raising ``ValueError`` instead of ``TypeError`` (:issue:`30950`)
-

Timedelta
^^^^^^^^^

-
-

Timezones
^^^^^^^^^

-
-


Numeric
^^^^^^^
-
-

Conversion
^^^^^^^^^^
- Bug in :class:`Series` construction from NumPy array with big-endian ``datetime64`` dtype (:issue:`29684`)
-
-

Strings
^^^^^^^

-
-


Interval
^^^^^^^^

-
-

Indexing
^^^^^^^^
- Bug in slicing on a :class:`DatetimeIndex` with a partial-timestamp dropping high-resolution indices near the end of a year, quarter, or month (:issue:`31064`)
-
-

Missing
^^^^^^^

-
-

MultiIndex
^^^^^^^^^^

-
-

I/O
^^^

-
-

Plotting
^^^^^^^^

-
-

Groupby/resample/rolling
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

- Bug in :meth:`GroupBy.apply` raises ``ValueError`` when the ``by`` axis is not sorted and has duplicates and the applied ``func`` does not mutate passed in objects (:issue:`30667`)

Reshaping
^^^^^^^^^

-
- Bug in :meth:`DataFrame.pivot_table` when only MultiIndexed columns is set (:issue:`17038`)
- Bug in :meth:`DataFrame.unstack` and :meth:`Series.unstack` can take tuple names in MultiIndexed data (:issue:`19966`)
- Bug in :meth:`DataFrame.pivot_table` when ``margin`` is ``True`` and only ``column`` is defined (:issue:`31016`)
- Fix incorrect error message in :meth:`DataFrame.pivot` when ``columns`` is set to ``None``. (:issue:`30924`)
- Bug in :func:`crosstab` when inputs are two Series and have tuple names, the output will keep dummy MultiIndex as columns. (:issue:`18321`)
- Bug in :func:`concat` where the resulting indices are not copied when ``copy=True`` (:issue:`29879`)

Sparse
^^^^^^

-
-

ExtensionArray
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

-
-


Other
^^^^^
- Appending a dictionary to a :class:`DataFrame` without passing ``ignore_index=True`` will raise ``TypeError: Can only append a dict if ignore_index=True``
  instead of ``TypeError: Can only append a Series if ignore_index=True or if the Series has a name`` (:issue:`30871`)
-

.. ---------------------------------------------------------------------------

.. _whatsnew_110.contributors:

Contributors
~~~~~~~~~~~~
